we're joined Now by Robert mardini he is
the director general of the
international Committee of the Red Cross
he joins us now live from Janita Geneva
thank you so much for taking the time to
speak to us in Al jazer now in the last
24 hours we've heard about two newborn
babies at alifa hospital in Gaza who
have died after a shell an Israeli shell
shut down a generator which had been
powering incubators in the neonate a
ward we know many other babies are also
at risk now how long can a newborn baby
survive without being connected to an
incubator well these are
unbearable um reports and images we're
getting from alifa hospital but also
from other hospital alwan alut hospital
and many other hospitals where U the
vicinity of hospitals become War zones
which is really unacceptable and we
repeat our call to parties to the
conflict that hospitals are sanctuaries
they need to be protected they must be
protected uh no patient no baby no woman
no man should die in a bed hospital no
doctor no nurse should should be killed
in the line of duty those are uh
unacceptable things happening before our
eyes today it's worth highlighting to
our viewers the pictures we are
currently showing on the screen are
those 20 or so babies that were
connected to incubators but now can no
longer be connected I just want to ask
my question again how long do they have
to survive if they're not connected to
the uh to the
niku there are the most vulnerable of
the vulnerable and we have been saying
very cons very consistently for many
days now that uh one cannot unplug uh an
incubator uh and expect that a baby will
be surviving uh we know that hospitals
need fuel electricity uh that severely
injured people also uh are extremely
vulnerable and that uh Medical Care
should be protected and clearly what
you're seeing happening today in Gaza
hospital is is simply not acceptable
it's not acceptable parties to the
conflict need to uh to to do much more
to protect civilians to protect doctors
to protect the act of uh of of you know
the life-saving act of of uh uh of of
doctors and nurses uh Mr mardini today
we heard from the Palestine red cresant
Society they say alud Hospital which is
again one of the main hospitals in Gaza
that it's run out of fuel it is no
longer operational but that their
medical staff are still trying to treat
patients without electricity can you
tell us more about what is happening in
Al kuds and how difficult a situation
these doctors and nurses and healthc
Care Professionals must be
facing I mean we received those reports
from our colleagues from the Palestine C
in society that the hospitals is no
longer in a uh in a position to to
operate and still there are uh patients
uh requiring critical Services here and
the doctors and nurses are certainly
doing everything they can with very
limited means very often without
anesthesia without electricity we know
of doctors treating with the light of
their mobile phones and not only by the
way in aluts hospital but for in other
hospitals as as well working conditions
are unbearable uh and the nurses and
doctors have been working around the
clock now for a months uh with with
limited support and with the
deteriorating working conditions day by
day hour by hour uh and this situation
is simply not tenable and what are you
hearing from your uh staff on the ground
about military activity that is
currently underway around these
hospitals and on these hospitals
well I mean the reports are very Stark
uh we are really facing an unbearable
human tragedy that is unfolding in front
of our eyes this is what our colleagues
underground are saying people are
approaching us and are calling us day
and night saying they are afraid to open
their door for fear of getting killed
and and pleading to help them to reach
safety so uh what I feel from our teams
on the ground is anger is frustration
for not being able to respond to these
calls uh because the working conditions
are are not there to be able to carry
out safely those life-saving activities
in the worst of circumstances isra
and apologies for interrupting but I I
just want to say that Israel continues
to stand by the fact that Hamas is
embedded in tunnels under these
hospitals claims that hospital staff
deny are hospitals Fair game when it
comes to the law of armed
conflict well hospitals are to be
absolutely protected uh by all times and
I think the onus and the obligation is
always on the parties to the conflict
not to use hospitals to launch attacks
or to use hospitals as a battle Zone uh
this is very clear uh and even if a
hospital uh is used by one party as a
launching pad uh for attack uh it does
not justify
automatically uh that hospital be
targeted at a time where uh women
children and men are being treated and
the health personnel is delivering
life-saving AIDS so uh those are
sanctuaries that should be protected and
we reiterate our call to parties to the
conflict to uh to stay away from
hospital to stay away from ambulances
evacuating critically injured to to stay
away from uh health personnel saving
lives in the most difficult of of times
and circumstances Benjamin Netanyahu has
said in recent interviews that the Red
Cross should be doing its Duty and I I
quote there and checking on the welfare
of the Israeli captives in Gaza is that
something the Israelis have approached
you with and how would that be
facilitated well we have been also
extremely clear from from the beginning
that uh uh those hostages civilians
hostages should be uh should be freed uh
urgently and unconditionally uh we have
repeated our ask to be visiting them to
check on their health to ensure that
they get medicines to also allow them to
exchange messages with their uh families
and we also uh proposed to facilitate
any release of hostages so far our teams
were successful in uh facilitating the
release of four hostages we are ready to
do more of this and this is part also of
our commitment and at the same time our
teams are committed to help uh in the
Gaza Strip um amid horrendous conditions
uh and unbearable suffering the civilian
population is living and there is no
hierarchy in suffering there is no
hierarchy uh in uh human dignity and we
call really on the humanity of uh
parties to the conflict to carve out
a larger space for impartial and neutral
humanitarian action that is needed today
more than ever and if you did indeed
visit uh to check on the condition of
these uh captives Israeli captives in
Gaza would you speak to the Israelis
about doing the same thing for those
Palestinians that are in in jails in the
occupied West
Bank I mean absolutely for us uh a deta
dete is a detainee uh they require our
visit and we have been very consistent
from the very beginning and for many
years by the way where we have been
visiting uh detainees on on all sides of
this conflict and our plea Remains the
Same uh we need unconditional access to
all detainees including uh the hostages
today in Gaza uh we haven't been able to
visit so far but this is uh a
longstanding request and ask and um and
we hope we will be able to visit them
soon 1.6 million people displaced many
people forced to live crowded in tiny
spaces that are available what are the
risks of disease in the near
future well actually we see now the
visible scars of four and this is uh
unacceptable its heartbreaking is
terrifying to see and what our
colleague surgeons are seeing today day
in and day out uh is is simply
unbearable but there is also a silent
picking bomb which is the public health
which is uh the rising risk of epidemic
that is starting to play out in many
places with the four out of the five
wastewater treatment uh plants in Gaza
not operating uh and the waste water
flowing into the streets where uh T of
of displaced people are living in
horrendous conditions uh this is recipe
for epidemics uh we hope that there will
be enough wisdom to deescalate uh this
conflict and to allow um humanitarian
activities to take place uh in better
conditions that it is the case today
where I think our colleagues from the
icrc our colleagues from the palestin
resquest society and many other
organizations present in Gaza are
are able only to do a fraction what is
uh of what is needed and this is why it
is absolutely critical to reiterate uh
the need to have sustained humanitarian
Aid getting into the Gaza Strip to to
also get enough regular predictable
humanitarian poses to allow first people
to get access to services and
humanitarians to be able to carry out
their work Mr mardini just briefly one
more question for you you are the
director general of the International
Committee of the Red Cross you have
lived through many a humanitarian crisis
have you ever experienced or seen a
situation like this in
Gaza I've been indeed many times in Gaza
whether during um previous rounds of
escalations or in the immediate
aftermath uh and I think from what I
hear from my colleague today on the
ground what we bear witness to uh is uh
not comparable by any stretch of the IM
in ination the level of Despair the
level of uh anger the level of
frustration of human suffering uh is
reaching U alarming levels and I think
this should be a moment for the inter
International Community to to get its
act together and to ensure that uh a
space for Humanity is carved out in the
middle of this Mayhem Robert mardini
director general of the international
Committee of the Red Cross thank thank
you for your time